hey welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more with pam dinner from
rowley north carolina so big big hello
to everyone
another episode and this time we really
want to talk about something very
special
podcasting well i'm doing podcasting
right now but i really want to talk to
an expert
that has been in this field for a long
period of time doing podcasting and come
talk to us in terms of what do's and
don'ts and also
how can you showcase value add if you
want to use podcast as a content
marketing channel
so today we have jeremy shear
he's a founder and the ceo of conversa
which is the b2b podcasting agency on
top of it yay jeremy thank you so much
for coming to my show
well pam thank you so much for having me
it's uh so awesome to be here i know you
are the expert so i have many many
questions i would like to ask you and
give your thoughts and the feedback and
hopefully along the way
our listener can also learn
from you what should the b2b marketer
think about say the podcasting as a
channel so when you're just starting out
you probably want to
start by inviting on people you already
know that could be subject matter
experts from within your company
and build your inventory in a way
you have to have you know at least a
handful of episodes that you've
published regularly
and that can be with existing customers
people already in your network that you
know with your you know employees or
your colleagues you know at your company
once you've done that and you're able to
demonstrate that this podcast is real
and we've published x number of episodes
regularly over the last few months or
however long it is
then you can be pretty confident that
when you reach out and you invite people
you're gonna get a lot of yeses
because
it's very flattering to be asked to be
on a podcast most people most of the
time
like being asked to talk about
themselves and about their expertise and
their experience i know that you manage
podcast productions for many b2b
companies and clients yeah so how do
they measure success it depends on what
your goals are for the podcast and sort
of what your expectations are well give
us some examples the standard way to
measure
the success of a podcast is by downloads
i think that that metric
is very different if you're a b2b
marketer and you're doing podcasting
then if you're
doing podcasting to just sort of reach
you know as many listeners as possible
anywhere if your show is mainly for
entertainment
then pretty much
the sole indicator of whether you're
succeeding or not is how many people are
we attracting to this podcast
for b2b marketers it's it's a little bit
different you're doing a very niche
podcast if you're doing a b2b podcast
you are aiming it at a very particular
audience
so just for example one of our clients
is a sas company
in the supply chain space
their podcast is really aimed at like
supply chain professionals yep
procurement managers supply chain
professionals yes like a very niche
audience and so you're trying to capture
the biggest percentage of that audience
you can but in raw numbers it's not
going to be anything like the most
popular podcast in the world just get
like millions of listeners that i 100
agree so you set up expectations
obviously with your clients in terms of
the niche podcast tend not to have a
huge podcast but still how do they
measure their success it really helps to
have a sense of your audience and kind
of a sense of your potential audience
out there so you might be getting 150
regular listeners per episode let's say
and in raw numbers that might not seem
like a lot but it all depends on the
context that means every single time you
put in put out an episode getting 150
people the exact people who are your
audience that you're providing services
for who are tuning in to hear what you
have to say and what your guests have to
say so there's a different way of
thinking about it so but in any case
that's just one way of measuring another
way of measuring the value is the
content that you're generating from the
podcast i was on a call with a client
just the other day
and
i asked her you know how is the podcast
going what can we improve
and i said well why don't we look at the
you know the numbers the download
numbers and she said you know what
we can do that
but i'll be honest with you i don't
really look at those numbers so much
like i have a general sense of them but
that's not really how we value the
podcast for us it's all about the
content that it generates
so
for every episode they get the audio
episode
we record some video for them so they
also
take that video and repurpose it as
promotional content and then they turn
their turning every episode into at
least one blog post and a bunch of
social media content
so for this particular client the main
value lies in the fact that it's a
content generation engine
and it helps them produce content much
more efficiently than they were doing
before
so speaking of podcasting can you tell
us in terms of what are different
formats of podcasting out there and also
is any kind of like ideal format for b2b
there are like a handful of kind of main
formats
one is one person doing a monologue
right that's one format there's the
interview format what we're doing right
now a host and a guest yep there are
variations on that sometimes you have
co-hosts or multiple hosts and with
multiple guests you know but basically
an interview format there are scripted
podcasts instead of just publishing this
as a back-and-forth conversation that
you took sound bites from what i'm
talking about and then wrote a script
around it and then narrated and then did
the voiceover kind of like a documentary
is a podcast version of it
a more narrative scripted podcast but
but it's not fiction like it's you know
it's it's non-fiction and sort of taking
an interview and turning it into more of
a narrative in a story using narration
and sound bytes those are the main
formats yeah and you know you can sort
of tell even if you haven't tried all
those or any of them that they range
from the monologue being kind of the
simplest format because it's just one
person talking to the scripted version
which is the most complicated and takes
the most time time yeah because you're
you're writing a script and doing a
voiceover and all that and on top of it
you have the editing you have the
editing in the right way so that story
really flows yeah the interview format
is the most common and i would just
recommend this generally to you know any
b2b company that's thinking of doing
podcasting
it's a good place to start at least
yeah you get the most value for the
effort that's required to do it and do
it well and produce it at a high level
in some ways i think it's actually
easier to do than a monologue
because if it's just one person and
you're doing a monologue
it takes a certain kind of person to be
able to pull that off
because and i guarantee it will not work
if
you're like writing everything out and
then just reading it off the page unless
you're really really good at that unless
you like you have some acting chop
there's too great a risk that it's going
to come off as very stilted and it's
going to sound like somebody reading off
a page and that's just not very engaging
to listen to
when people listen to like a very
authentic conversation they feel they
are part of it
so you know even though like you and i
are talking but they feel like oh you
know what i'm actually part of it i
understand what they are talking about
and then uh
if it's more scripted it's more there's
a sense of melody kind of associated
with it and then you feel like uh it's
very tight you know what i'm saying
literally what we're doing right now
together
we're sort of thinking out loud together
you know you're asking me questions
about something of course i i know
something about and that i've thought a
lot about so it's not like i'm thinking
about it for the first time but
the way that i'm talking about it right
now is
unique you know like i've had these
conversations before but this
conversation is unique and the way
you're asking questions is making me
think of things in a slightly different
way and so i'm as i'm thinking i'm
understanding
podcasting in a slightly different way
because you're giving me the opportunity
to think out loud with you right and
then you come back at me with like oh
that's a good point and and what about
this you know so by the end of our
conversation we'll have created
something that doesn't exist anywhere
else there might be similar
conversations but none that are really
the same that's where the magic lies
yes
so to create a magic like that
and can you also share with us giving
that you work with many b2b companies
and a lot of b2b marketers will be
curious to find out how much it costs
produce an episode and if they have to
set up a budget you know what is the
setup budget will look like and also how
much it costs to actually produce an
episode of course i'm not talking about
podcast advertising it's more or less
have the podcast produced very nicely
and uploaded to a listening platform can
you share some of that information with
us the costs range really widely
totally agree a range is fine yeah and
it of course totally depends on
what kind of podcast you're doing kind
of the level of you know production that
you're getting into for us i mean i can
just tell you kind of where how our
pricing range is sure at the simplest
end where we're just producing like a
pretty basic audio podcast interview
style
and we're focusing primarily on the post
production meaning the client records
and then they send us the files and we
edit them and produce them and make them
sound awesome and package it all
together put in the music put in the
intro and outro upload it to the hosting
platform
that's going to be somewhere in the
range of
seven probably
dollars eight hundred dollars per
episode per episode yep you know
typically people will buy like a package
of episodes that might have some
discount built in that makes a lot of
sense yeah
if you're getting a little more
complicated and
you're also looking for pre-production
services which is producing likely part
of it yeah
that might include helping you find
guests book guests
write questions sort of do all
everything that needs to happen to get
you prepared to actually record the
interview you might want like an
engineer just like you have scott on
your uh i have scott yeah
behind the scenes if you if you need you
know an engineer just to make sure that
everything sounds good looks good to
troubleshoot if any problems comes up so
then that's a higher level of service
and then you're talking anywhere from
about um you know twelve hundred dollars
fifteen hundred dollars an episode and
then on the much higher end
reproducing each episode to create other
kinds of content so
producing a full-length video episode uh
shorter promo videos uh blog posts all
that stuff then you're looking at you
know anywhere from about maybe eighteen
hundred dollars to
over two thousand dollars an episode
somewhere in that range that's kind of
where we are at the moment if people go
online they'll probably find some that
are a bit less some that are that might
be
more depending and you know there might
be companies offering services that
we're not doing right now i think that's
what you can
basically expect so people who are
watching or listening to this
might be thinking like well
okay
what if we just found like a freelancer
on fiverr who could just you know do
some really basic editing and stuff like
that what you run into
when you you know might hire somebody
for like 20 bucks an hour to edit your
podcast
is
first of all the
you usually get what you pay for in
terms of the quality
pay for it yeah i 100 agree with that
yeah there are different schools of
thought on this you know there is one
school of thought that just says you
know just record some stuff and put it
up there you know the the
the audio quality is really not the most
important thing it's most it's more
important that you just record and get
stuff out there at volume
and
i personally i disagree with that just
because maybe at one time that might
have been true
but i think
these days
there are so many more podcasts out
there that if you're serious about it
and that you actually you want to grow
an audience and you want to attract
people and you want to get the best
guests
you're kind of competing against you
know the the best podcast out there and
people have come to expect a certain
level of quality
i do agree with that too and to keep
producing episodes week after week month
after month at that same high level
it takes a team of people
it can get overwhelming if you're trying
to do it yourself or if you just have a
freelancer who may or may not be that
good at it or who might disappear at
some point yeah
or who gets too busy
to really get the level of quality that
you need to that i think people have
come to expect and that you should want
you know if you're gonna put stuff out
there with your voice in it or your name
on it
so what if some of the the b2b marketers
they would like to do diy on their own
what are some of the tools and software
they can use like for example recording
do you have a suggestion in terms of
recording and obviously i use riverside
and but maybe you may have a couple
other suggestions and also a listening
platform that they can use to upload do
you have any suggestions on those it
depends
what kind of recording you're doing so
if you're doing remote recording like
like what we're doing the host needs a
microphone the good news there is that
you can get a perfectly good microphone
for
right around 100 150 bucks even maybe
under a hundred dollars if you you know
find just the right one you do not need
to be spending thousands of dollars on
like the top level microphone i 100
agree yeah you need a platform to do
remote recording as you mentioned right
now we're using riverside that's a very
good one
we also use one called iris fm iris.fm
also a very good one i've heard that yup
you know i know a lot of people use zoom
and
we don't use it just because
i think riverside and iris and other
platforms are just better they just get
better quality overall
sound quality i think yeah they're built
for podcasting and you know i use i use
zoom all the time just not for recording
yeah so my recommendation would be
to use use a platform that's built
specifically for podcast recording
you also need if you're interviewing
people remotely
then you also have to worry about the
quality of their audio
and they may or may not have a
microphone or a headset
i found that
people just speaking into their computer
microphone has gotten a lot better than
it used to be
it used to sound horrible no matter what
now i'm often surprised that it sounds
so much better and sometimes it actually
sounds pretty good i definitely
recommend doing like a little test to
see that might be just before you record
or even like a day before to see what
does the audio sound like and encourage
the guest if they don't already have one
to maybe
get a simple headset or a microphone
that's our recommendation too to all
guests and then in terms of editing
there are you know many different tools
you can use we use a tool called we we
use a piece of software called dscript
to do most of our editing and it's a
really good tool really powerful tool
you can use if you have a mac and you
have garageband built in perfectly good
tool to do some editing audacity is a
free online tool that a lot of people
use yep that one's popular that's
popular yeah that can get the job done
check out dscrip that's really a pretty
cool tool a good one and then in terms
of a hosting platform and there are
dozens out there
currently we mostly use one called buzz
sprout
but you know some of the more popular
ones podbean libsyn
um
i i guess my only
real recommendation there is there are
some free options
like soundcloud is free i think anchor
is one associated with i think it's
associated with spotify it's free
those will work but i would recommend
not using the free option uh
i would recommend you know
buzz sprout you can do for 12 bucks a
month it'll get you most people all they
need you get better analytics
um just more
more services better ways to embed a
player on a website and all that stuff
so you know we've been using buzz sprout
for for a few years now and it's
definitely pretty good it's worthwhile
doing some research and checking out the
different platforms and the analytics
that they offer and stuff like that yes
i do also agree with you when you are
looking to evaluate the hosting platform
check out the analytic capability and
that's very important especially if you
are looking into
uh to tracking uh your success
measurement and that's one way and of
course you can also add additional
analytic platform on top of it to get
additional insight
hey this is wonderful jeremy it's
wonderful to have you with me at my show
and to share a lot of your wisdom
and the knowledge and insight in terms
of doing the podcasting and the value
that uh provided if you will to the b2b
marketers so thank you for coming to my
show
oh you're so welcome it was a real
pleasure i had a great time
okay take care everyone bye
bye bye
[Music]
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]